README.md, before:

# FERElight | ˈferēlīt |
[![pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ferelight.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/ferelight/)

Extremely lightweight and purpose-built feature extraction and retrieval engine (FERE).

## Installation

### From PyPI
```
pip install ferelight
```

### From Source
```
pip install git+https://github.com/FEREorg/ferelight.git
```

## Usage
To configure the pgvector PostgreSQL connection and CORS settings, create a file `config.json` in the root directory with the following content:

```json
{
  "DBHOST": "<host>",
  "DBPORT": "<port>",
  "DBUSER": "<user>",
  "DBPASSWORD": "<password>",
  "CORS": {
    "ENABLED": true,
    "ALLOW_ORIGIN": "*",
    "ALLOW_METHODS": "GET, POST, OPTIONS",
    "ALLOW_HEADERS": "Content-Type, Authorization"
  }
}
```

### CORS Configuration Parameters

- `ENABLED`: Boolean value to enable or disable CORS support (default: false)
- `ALLOW_ORIGIN`: Specifies which origins are allowed to access the resource (default: "*")
- `ALLOW_METHODS`: Specifies which HTTP methods are allowed (default: "GET, POST, OPTIONS")
- `ALLOW_HEADERS`: Specifies which HTTP headers are allowed (default: "Content-Type, Authorization")

### Running the Server

To run the server, please execute the following from the root directory:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
python3 -m ferelight
```

You can also specify a custom path to the configuration file:

```
python3 -m ferelight --config /path/to/your/config.json
# or using the short option
python3 -m ferelight -c /path/to/your/config.json
```

## Running with Docker

### Using Docker Hub

The Docker image is available on Docker Hub. You can pull and run it directly:

```bash
docker pull florianspiess/ferelight:latest
docker run -p 8080:8080 florianspiess/ferelight:latest
```

### Building Locally

To build and run the server on a Docker container locally, execute the following from the root directory:

```bash
# building the image
docker build -t ferelight .

# starting up a container
docker run -p 8080:8080 ferelight
```

## Development

### Releasing New Versions

To release a new version:

1. Update the version number in `ferelight/__init__.py`
2. Create a new GitHub release or tag with a version number (e.g., `v1.0.1`)
3. The GitHub Actions workflows will automatically:
   - Build and publish the package to PyPI
   - Build and publish the Docker image to Docker Hub (as both `latest` and version-specific tags)

Commit message:

Port configuration (#13)
* Implement configurable port

* Bump version

README.md, after:

# FERElight | ˈferēlīt |
[![pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ferelight.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/ferelight/)

Extremely lightweight and purpose-built feature extraction and retrieval engine (FERE).

## Installation

### From PyPI
```
pip install ferelight
```

### From Source
```
pip install git+https://github.com/FEREorg/ferelight.git
```

## Usage
To configure the pgvector PostgreSQL connection and CORS settings, create a file `config.json` in the root directory with the following content:

```json
{
  "PORT": 8080,
  "DBHOST": "<host>",
  "DBPORT": "<port>",
  "DBUSER": "<user>",
  "DBPASSWORD": "<password>",
  "CORS": {
    "ENABLED": true,
    "ALLOW_ORIGIN": "*",
    "ALLOW_METHODS": "GET, POST, OPTIONS",
    "ALLOW_HEADERS": "Content-Type, Authorization"
  }
}
```

### Server Configuration Parameters

- `PORT`: The port on which the server will listen (default: 8080)

### CORS Configuration Parameters

- `ENABLED`: Boolean value to enable or disable CORS support (default: false)
- `ALLOW_ORIGIN`: Specifies which origins are allowed to access the resource (default: "*")
- `ALLOW_METHODS`: Specifies which HTTP methods are allowed (default: "GET, POST, OPTIONS")
- `ALLOW_HEADERS`: Specifies which HTTP headers are allowed (default: "Content-Type, Authorization")

### Running the Server

To run the server, please execute the following from the root directory:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
python3 -m ferelight
```

You can also specify a custom path to the configuration file:

```
python3 -m ferelight --config /path/to/your/config.json
# or using the short option
python3 -m ferelight -c /path/to/your/config.json
```

## Running with Docker

### Using Docker Hub

The Docker image is available on Docker Hub. You can pull and run it directly:

```bash
docker pull florianspiess/ferelight:latest
# Using default port (8080)
docker run -p 8080:8080 florianspiess/ferelight:latest
# Or specify a custom port (e.g., 9000) by mapping to the configured port
docker run -p 9000:8080 florianspiess/ferelight:latest
```

### Building Locally

To build and run the server on a Docker container locally, execute the following from the root directory:

```bash
# building the image
docker build -t ferelight .

# starting up a container
# Using default port (8080)
docker run -p 8080:8080 ferelight
# Or specify a custom port (e.g., 9000) by mapping to the configured port
docker run -p 9000:8080 ferelight
```

## Development

### Releasing New Versions

To release a new version:

1. Update the version number in `ferelight/__init__.py`
2. Create a new GitHub release or tag with a version number (e.g., `v1.0.1`)
3. The GitHub Actions workflows will automatically:
   - Build and publish the package to PyPI
   - Build and publish the Docker image to Docker Hub (as both `latest` and version-specific tags)
